I begin this video with an
acknowledgement that in the year 2020
the concept of political science seems
like a joke right my major and
university was political science what is
political science what would it even
mean to think scientifically about
politics or to have expertise in the
science of politics it seems like a bad
joke but there's a meaningful challenge
for us to set aside the baggage of the
particular culture we were born into to
set aside the assumptions built into the
particular language we grew up speaking
and to examine politics scientifically
most of you watching this video will
assume that Bernie Sanders is left-wing
that all of his policies are left-wing
domestic foreign policy economic social
you'll assume they're all left-wing just
because Bernie Sanders says that he
wants to help the poor do you think
definitionally do you think by
definition conservatives don't want to
help the poor or do you think that's
just a cultural assumption that's common
in the United States of America right
now in the year 2020
do you think in Italy there are no
conservatives who go out and help the
poor hands on conservative Christian
Italians whose whole lives have to do
with charity work helping the homeless
helping drug addicts helping orphans no
I used to live in Cambodia there were
conservative Christians in Cambodia who
were really helping the poor hands on
they were doing that sheriff he worked
there too I don't like those people all
right
there are conservatives who are devoted
to helping the poor there are
conservatives who help the poor in
charity work there are conservatives who
are committed to social and political
policies that help the poor and there
will be in future in Italy in Cambodia
in the United States America there will
be conservative Christians who build
their whole political program on helping
the poor because there is nothing
ineluctable there's nothing definitional
about the connection between
conservatism and shall we say contempt
for the poor
or a difference for the port that's just
the cultural context in United States of
America right now in the year 2020
how about Bernie Sanders in his policy
on Detroit and if you don't know what I
mean
you didn't read the book you did not
read Bernie Sanders book which mentions
Detroit again and again and again
Detroit is the locus classic us for the
economic vision of Bernie Sanders Bernie
Sanders is deeply committed to reviving
automotive manufacturing in Detroit
heavy industry in Detroit you know what
I say Bernie Sanders wants to revive
automotive manufacturing trade if he
wants the economy of Detroit to go back
to being the way it was in 1965 he
doesn't need to be elected president
United States he needs to invent the
time machine all right it's completely
ridiculous but tell me something can't
you even imagine if you just use your
measurement a little bit can't you
imagine a conservative political leader
singing exactly the same things that
Bernie Sanders says about the economy of
Detroit can't you imagine a conservative
or even someone right-wing saying that
the problem is losing all of our jobs to
China and Japan Bernie Sanders says that
read his book the problem is American
jobs going away to China Japan in Mexico
the problem is that you need a
government focused on reviving the car
industry heavy industry and
manufacturing in Detroit right if you
just go through economically what is
problem this is like the slogan make
America great again
this is a fundamentally conservative
backward-looking
view of the economy and what he promises
on this basis is more more good-paying
jobs more high-paying jobs and he thinks
he's going to do that too heavy industry
mass manufacturing and unions Union
going back to the way things were at
night in the 1960s and you had you know
many many thousands of people all
working in the same factory on the same
schedule on the same shift and they
could organize into a union and bargain
for higher wages you need a time machine
this is not the reality of the economy
in 22
and looking ahead to 2030 and 2040 this
is less and less the economic reality of
life Amara but Bernie Sanders is
fundamentally a conservative political
thinker he is looking back he's looking
back to the past or the way things were
in the United States Berg he wants to go
back there okay and he looks to what are
simply conservative examples of Western
European states and what they've
accomplished and he conservatively wants
America to go back to that standard also
but look I sympathize Bernie Sanders
goes to Denmark and he goes to Scotland
and he looks at the social programs
those countries have and he says America
can do this too there's nothing radical
about that Bernie Sanders himself says
it he says he's not a radical it's
actually a very conservative very
backward looking way of thinking what is
Bernie Sanders policy on education he
wants to keep the university system in
the United States America the same way
it is now
he puts the same broken bad system he
just wants to lower the price of entry
he just wants to remove the cost of
tuition
what does Bernie Sanders want to do with
medical care he wants the same system
the way it is now he's just gonna expand
the government payment program he's
gonna make it free or he's gonna make it
incredibly cheap for people to get
medical with the same system right this
is not even reform this is a
conservative position on these policy
instead instead of doing what the
left-wing definitionally does instead of
doing what the left has meant since the
French Revolution when it was defined
all right in your culture today in the
United States of America you assume that
anyone supporting limited government
small government efficient government is
conservative and right-wing whereas
anyone promoting the expansion of
governor
anyone who says government should become
larger who take on more responsibilities
more spending that those people are left
me neither one of these things is
definitionally left or right okay
historically the people who were
advocating for small government were the
original liberals the original
philosophic radicals the original
utilitarians also people who said no
they don't want government bureaucracy
expanding to control everything they
don't want totalitarian government they
want a sphere for personal liberty which
meant in practice in large part
so-called free enterprise that was a
left-wing position okay and it could be
again and whether or not it is now in
your culture in your language right but
definitionally what happened with the
French Revolution was you had a movement
that said hey we can sweep aside the
accumulated assumptions of centuries we
can get rid of tradition we can start
with a blank chalkboard and we can
figure out how to solve this problem
this problem that problem we can say
look the fact that a thousand years ago
people started using a measurement
called the foot that was allegedly the
size of the Kings foot it doesn't matter
what we need right now is a set of
scientists to sit down with a blank
chalkboard and design how we should
measure things weights distance time we
need a whole new system starting from a
blank sheet of paper and you know what
French Revolution ended in disaster
the French Revolution ended in failure
but it was during the French Revolution
it was the political discourse within
the French Revolution that define for us
the meaning of the term left and
left-wing in contrast to what right that
we still have today and what America
really means is not the conservatism of
Bernie Sanders what America needs is
someone who can look at the university
system and say this is broken and bad
and wrong and the way to fix it is not
just keeping everything the same but
lowering the price of admission someone
who can look at the hospital system and
say this is
broken and bad and wrong and the way to
fix it is not just lowering the price of
treatment lowering the price of
admission to the hospital however you
want to put it let me ask you something
as a thought experiment real quickly
here have you ever seen someone wearing
a t-shirt that says the name of the
driving school where they learned to
drive a car have you ever seen someone
with a baseball cap or other branded
merchandise the school where you learned
to drive a car if you learned to drive
the school where you learned to have a
car
did it have a football team did you guys
get together and cheer for a
multi-million dollar football team did
you have a swimming pool did it have
huge palatial gardens why is there such
a stark difference between the very
efficient very cheap world of people
preparing to learn how to drive a car
preparing for a government exam that
proves either you can or cannot drive a
car sale if that gives you the
credential says yes you've learned how
to drift why is there such a tremendous
gap between that form of Education and
the multi-billion dollar super corrupt
industry of university education a
university education system that never
was designed by anyone for any reason
we're at best we can go back about 200
years and say this was a system of
education for the edification of a tiny
number of aristocratic men that yes man
there was only one gender men whose
lives would be defined on the one hand
by agriculture as land owning
aristocrats on the other hand by
military service and they needed a place
to go and study Latin and Greek and
ethics you should take a look at what
ethics meant about 150 years ago in
academia get this get this education so
they could be refined gentlemen and
that's how we got this idea that
everything no matter what the subjects
should take for years how long does it
take to become a Bachelor of English
let's be clear unlike your driving test
that there is no standard for what it
means to be a bad
the government just never bothered to
find that they defined very precisely
what a what defines who's a good driver
and who's a bad driver who's safe to
drive a car doesn't government to find
that right there are a lot of other
technical areas of expertise where the
government has a definition whether or
not it's safe for you to own a gun
whether or not it's safe for you to
operate a crane you okay there are
things where there's a government
created examine what what does it mean
to be a bachelor I think why does it
take four years why can't you have some
kind of competitive lean efficient
business that sells you in education and
English literature the same way there
are small companies that will sell you a
education how to drive a car why is that
why does it have to take four years why
do I have to pay tens of thousands of
dollars to support a sports team and a
swimming pool and palatial gardens and
this whole permanent vacation lifestyle
for thousands of students living on a
campus just to become a Bachelor of
English and why does it take four years
to become a Bachelor of English while at
the same time it supposedly takes me
only four years to learn Chinese there
is absolutely no way you could learn the
Chinese language in four years I'm in a
position to speak on that there is no
way you could learn Russian in four
years and I've met and spoken to people
who got a bachelor's degree in Russian
I've met people got a bachelor's degree
in Sanskrit but the system itself is
like way beyond the concept of a man who
who holds a hammer sees every problem as
a nail the system is designed where they
started with a format a completely
irrational
medieval format that's just an echo of a
tradition from centuries ago having to
do with aristocratic gentleman education
there's no applicability in the real
world today
it wasn't even designed to prepare you
to be a Bachelor of English let alone
competent in Chinese let alone comp
competent in mechanical engineering or
any other service we started with a
completely cultural traditional concept
of what higher education was supposed to
be built around Greek and Latin and
ethics
and then we just said okay we'll sell it
to you in a whole bunch of flavors but
whether you choose to study Chinese or
you choose to study English literature
it's gonna be four years it's gonna cost
you the same amount of money it's gonna
take the same amount of time and if you
choose something that's easy to learn
we're gonna load on a whole bunch of
breadth requirements a whole bunch of
our relevant courses that you have to
take just to make it fill up four years
and you know what if you choose
something that's really challenging
that's basically impossible to learn in
four years then we're gonna load it up
with breadth requirements and pretend
that was never the point to begin with
we're gonna pretend that we're really
teaching you critical thinking so the
fact that you spent fifty thousand
dollars and lost four years of your life
and you still can't speak Chinese or you
still can't read a newspaper in Russian
that doesn't really matter because you
got critical thinking thanks for your
fifty thousand dollars here's your
worthless diploma Bernie Sanders wants
to revive the economy in Detroit by
traveling back to 1965 and that's
exactly what he wants to do for
universities also in 1965 university
tuition was cheap a tiny percentage of
the population got a university degree
and the economic value of the university
degree was much higher than it was today
a BA a bachelor's degree in 1965
actually led to job opportunities today
it leads to zero Bernie Sanders is not
looking at the reality of coding camps
of how people now get an education and
training to be able to really do
computer science let me tell you
something coding camps if you want to
learn how to program a computer there's
no swimming pool there's no sports team
okay there are no Gardens it's a lot
more like going to drive in school and
it's still expensive but what you're
paying for all the money is going into
giving you job training for the specific
skill you need to learn you're not
getting breadth requirements with
English literature you're not getting a
relevant teaching hey that could be a
better way to organize adult education
in Chinese in a baking reminder guys I
went to college to learn how to bake
bread did you learn a goddamn thing
that's another I've been back in the
form of human events Bernie Sanders is
not looking around analytically and
thing hmm what we have here is the
accumulation of a set of irrational
traditions since the dark ages and what
we need to do is start thinking more
like the left wing did
in the French Revolution and wipe the
board clean and start thinking
rationally reasoning from first
principles to conclusions how do we
solve this problem how do we provide
education to millions of people to
everybody or the 90% of people not not
take a system of education that was
designed for a tiny minority of the
population 150 years ago not take not
try to go back to the system of
education as it was in 1965 not try to
just take a completely broken system
that's bankrupting the nation and just
lower the price to entry just socialize
the cost of that education why can't we
start from a blank chalkboard from a
blank sheet of paper and think how can
we provide education to the poor how can
we provide education to everybody at a
high level of quality that leads to a
high level of employability at a low
cost or an effective cost how are we
gonna solve that problem if you started
with a blank chalkboard nobody nobody
would come to the conclusion that we
should imitate what's happening right
now at Oxford University England at
Cambridge University England nobody
would say well the first thing we got to
do is build a cathedral nobody would say
the first thing we got to do is build an
enormous sports stadium and start
spending millions of dollars on football
we have the accretion of cultural
assumptions the accretion of cultural
expectations and those of us who are
really willing to think pragmatically
and nihilistic aliy in overturning those
cultural assumptions those those are the
people who are truly and profoundly
left-wing what Bernie Sanders wants to
do is truly and profoundly conservative
he wants Detroit to go back to the way
it was in 1965 he wants the university
system to go back to the way it was in
1965 and he looks at the accomplishment
of Western European countries whether it
be Scotland or it be Denmark and he
wants America to emulate what those
conservative government institutions
have already a
rather than really thinking through
what's optimal what's most effective not
what are the greatest hits of the last
50 years of political and economic
development but what could be the best
solution these problems for the next 50
years that's what's really left wing
that's what's really radical